Now, reports, you go to reports on the left. So we have so many reports, we have tenant statement, property statement, a rare statement, expenses month on month, year on year and property groupings report. So I'll explain each of these each of this. A tenant statement is going to show you all the transactions for a particular tenant. So we added only one tenant. So we'll select select the tenant, then we submit. And then you can be able to see their invoices and payments and how they are used to calculate their balance. Okay. You can always download this PDF as an, this report as a PDF or an Excel for all of them. Okay. Another report is a property statement. So I'm going to cover just a few, but I'll explain all of them. So property statement, this one is going to show you a report of the whole building. Okay. So for example, if we select December 1st to 20th, and then we say, select all columns and then submit, you'll be able to see, it will list all your tenants here.

Okay, which now shows you the income and then it will show you your expenses here and then your summary. Again, you're going to be able to download this as a PDF and an Excel. Arrears report, it will show you your arrears for all the tenants and all the properties. Expenses report will show you expenses for all your properties. month-on-month report. This will enable you to compare your performances over many months so that you can be able to see how you performed in certain months vis-a-vis other months. And again, you can be able to download them as PDFs. So this is good for analytics so that you can just see maybe which months you did better than the others so that maybe you know why that happened. Yeah, year on year, same as the month on month, but now comparison of years. Property groupings report. This is for property managers. This is not for landlords. This is mainly for property managers. and it will enable them.

For example, if you have employees that you have assigned certain properties, you can be able to get the performance of a certain employee by creating a grouping. Okay, so that a grouping represents a number of properties which they manage. Okay, so you have 50 properties, and you have five employees, each of them has manages 10 properties. So you can create groupings of the 10 so that you can be able to see the performances of each employee. The same can apply to branches. If you have branches in specific towns in Kenya or in whichever country you are in, you can be able to get the performances of each of those. So that is the run through of the reports. Finally, we're going to go through the settings tab. Okay, so just before